docs/hugo/content/reference/dataprotection/_index.md, before:

---
title: DataProtection Supported Resources
linktitle: DataProtection
no_list: true
---
To install the CRDs for these resources, your ASO configuration must include `dataprotection.azure.com/*` as a one of the configured CRD patterns. See [CRD Management in ASO](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/guide/crd-management/) for details on doing this for both [Helm](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/guide/crd-management/#helm) and [YAML](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/guide/crd-management/#yaml) based installations.

### Next Release

Development of these new resources is complete and they will be available in the next release of ASO.

| Resource                                                                                                                                                                           | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                                        |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [BackupVault](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dataprotection/v1api20230101/#dataprotection.azure.com/v1api20230101.BackupVault)                           | 2023-01-01  | v1api20230101 | v2.2.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dataprotection/v1api/v1api20230101_backupvault.yaml)              |
| [BackupVaultsBackupPolicy](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dataprotection/v1api20230101/#dataprotection.azure.com/v1api20230101.BackupVaultsBackupPolicy) | 2023-01-01  | v1api20230101 | v2.2.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dataprotection/v1api/v1api20230101_backupvaultsbackuppolicy.yaml) |

Commit message:

Update CRD documentation for v2.2.0 release (#3155)
* Set release version for Azure
* Update Azure docs
* Set release version for Crossplane

docs/hugo/content/reference/dataprotection/_index.md, after:

---
title: DataProtection Supported Resources
linktitle: DataProtection
no_list: true
---
To install the CRDs for these resources, your ASO configuration must include `dataprotection.azure.com/*` as a one of the configured CRD patterns. See [CRD Management in ASO](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/guide/crd-management/) for details on doing this for both [Helm](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/guide/crd-management/#helm) and [YAML](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/guide/crd-management/#yaml) based installations.

### Released

These resource(s) are available for use in the current release of ASO. Different versions of a given resource reflect different versions of the Azure ARM API.

| Resource                                                                                                                                                                           | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                                        |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [BackupVault](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dataprotection/v1api20230101/#dataprotection.azure.com/v1api20230101.BackupVault)                           | 2023-01-01  | v1api20230101 | v2.2.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dataprotection/v1api/v1api20230101_backupvault.yaml)              |
| [BackupVaultsBackupPolicy](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dataprotection/v1api20230101/#dataprotection.azure.com/v1api20230101.BackupVaultsBackupPolicy) | 2023-01-01  | v1api20230101 | v2.2.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dataprotection/v1api/v1api20230101_backupvaultsbackuppolicy.yaml) |
