docs/hugo/content/contributing/_index.md, before:

---
title: Contributing to Azure Service Operator v2
linktitle: Contributing
weight: 50
menu:
  main:
    weight: 50
cascade:
- type: docs
- render: always
description: "How to contribute new resources to Azure Service Operator v2"
---

## Related pages

* [Adding a new code-generator resource]( {{< relref "add-a-new-code-generated-resource" >}} ).
* [Generator code overview]( {{< relref "generator-overview" >}} )

## Developer setup (with VS Code)
This is the recommended setup, especially if you are using Windows as your development platform.

This repository contains a [devcontainer](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers) configuration that can be used in conjunction with VS Code to set up an environment with all the required tools preinstalled.

If you want to use this:

0. Make sure you have installed [the prerequisites to use Docker](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers#_system-requirements), including WSL if on Windows.
1. Install VS Code and the [Remote Development](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.vscode-remote-extensionpack) extension (check installation instructions there).
2. Run the VS Code command (with `Ctrl-Shift-P`): `Remote Containers: Clone Repository in Container Volume...`

   **Note**: in Windows, it is important to clone directly into a container instead of cloning first and then loading that with the `Remote Containers` extension, as the tooling performs a lot of file I/O, and if this is performed against a volume mounted in WSL then it is unusably slow.

   To complete the clone:
    1. Select "`GitHub`".
    2. Search for "`Azure/azure-service-operator`".
    3. Choose either of the following options about where to create the volume.
    4. The window will reload and run the `Dockerfile` setup. The first time, this will take some minutes to complete as it installs all dependencies.
    5. Run `git fetch --unshallow` if the repository you clone is a shallow clone. If you miss this step, you may see errors like `"./scripts/build-version.py v2" failed: exit status 1` when running `task`.
    6. Run `git submodule init` and `git submodule update`

3. To validate everything is working correctly, you can open a terminal in VS Code and run `task -l`. This will show a list of all `task` commands. Running `task` by itself (or `task default`) will run quick local pre-checkin tests and validation.

## Without VS Code

### Option 1: Dockerfile

The same `Dockerfile` that the VS Code `devcontainer` extension uses can also be used outside of VS Code; it is stored in the root `.devcontainer` directory and can be used to create a development container with all the tooling preinstalled:

```console
$ docker build $(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/.devcontainer -t asodev:latest
… image will be created …

$ # After that you can start a terminal in the development container with:
$ docker run --env-file ~/work/envs.env --env HOSTROOT=$(git rev-parse --show-toplevel) -v $(git rev-parse --show-toplevel):/go/src -w /go/src -u $(id -u ${USER}):$(id -g ${USER}) --group-add $(stat -c '%g' /var/run/docker.sock) -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock --network=host  -it asodev:latest /bin/bash
```

It is not recommended to mount the source like this on Windows (WSL2) as the cross-VM file operations are very slow.

### Option 2: ./dev.sh

If you are using Linux, instead of using VS Code you can run the `dev.sh` script in the root of the repository. This will install all required tooling into the `hack/tools` directory and then start a new shell with the `PATH` updated to use it.

## Directory structure of the operator

Key folders of note include:

* [`api`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/api) contains all of our supported resources. Much (most!) of this code is generated, but handwritten code is added at various extension points for flexibility.
* [`pkg`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/pkg) contains the package `genruntime` which is provides infrastructure for our generated resources.
* [`internal`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/internal) contains packages used by our generic controller.

![Overview](images/aso-v2-structure.svg)

The size of each dot reflects the size of the file; the legend in the corner shows the meaning of colour.

## Running integration tests

Basic use: run `task controller:test-integration-envtest`.

### Record/replay

The task `controller:test-integration-envtest` runs the tests in a record/replay mode by default, so that it does not touch any live Azure resources. (This uses the [go-vcr](https://github.com/dnaeon/go-vcr) library.) If you change the controller or other code in such a way that the required requests/responses from ARM change, you will need to update the recordings.

To do this, delete the recordings for the failing tests (under `{test-dir}/recordings/{test-name}.yml`), and re-run `controller:test-integration-envtest`. If the test passes, a new recording will be saved, which you can commit to include with your change. All authentication and subscription information is removed from the recording.

To run the test and produce a new recording you will also need to have set the required authentication environment variables for an Azure Service Principal: `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, and `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`. This Service Principal will need access to the subscription to create and delete resources.
A few tests also need the `TEST_BILLING_ID` variable set to a valid Azure Billing ID when running in record mode. In replay mode this variable is never required. Note that the billing ID is redacted from all recording files so that the resulting file can be replayed by anybody, even somebody who does not know the Billing ID the test was recorded with.

If you need to create a new Azure Service Principal, run the following commands:

```console
$ az login
… follow the instructions …
$ az account set --subscription {the subscription ID you would like to use}
Creating a role assignment under the scope of "/subscriptions/{subscription ID you chose}"
…
$ az ad sp create-for-rbac --role contributor --name {the name you would like to use}
{
  "appId": "…",
  "displayName": "{name you chose}",
  "name": "{name you chose}",
  "password": "…",
  "tenant": "…"
}
```
The output contains `appId` (`AZURE_CLIENT_ID`), `password` (`AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`), and `tenant` (`AZURE_TENANT_ID`). Store these somewhere safe as the password cannot be viewed again, only reset. The Service Principal will be created as a “contributor” to your subscription which means it can create and delete resources, so **ensure you keep the secrets secure**.

### Running live tests

If you want to skip all recordings and run all tests directly against live Azure resources, you can use the `controller:test-integration-envtest-live` task. This will also require you to set the authentication environment variables, as detailed above.

### Running a single test
By default `task controller:test-integration-envtest` and its variants run all tests. This is often undesirable as you may just be working on a single feature or test. In order to run a subset of tests, use:
```bash
TEST_FILTER=test_name_regex task controller:test-integration-envtest
```

## Running the operator locally
If you would like to try something out but do not want to write an integration test, you can run the operation locally in a [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io) cluster.

Before launching `kind`, make sure that your shell has the `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, and `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` environment variables set. See [above](#recordreplay) for more details about them. 

Once you've set the environment variables above, run one of the following commands to create a `kind` cluster:

1. Service Principal authentication cluster: `task controller:kind-create-with-service-principal`.
2. AAD Pod Identity authentication enabled cluster (emulates Managed Identity): `controller:kind-create-with-podidentity`.

You can use `kubectl` to interact with the local `kind` cluster.

When you're done with the local cluster, tear it down with `task controller:kind-delete`.

## Submitting a pull request
Pull requests opened from forks of the azure-service-operator repository will initially have a `skipped` `Validate Pull Request / integration-tests` check which
will prevent merging even if all other checks pass. Once a maintainer has looked at your PR and determined it is ready they will comment `/ok-to-test sha=<sha>`
to kick off an integration test pass. If this check passes along with the other checks the PR can be merged.

## Common problems and their solutions

### Error loading schema from root

Full error:
> error loading schema from root ... open /azure-service-operator/v2/specs/azure-resource-manager-schemas/schemas/2019-04-01/deploymentTemplate.json no such file or directory

This git repo contains submodules. This error occurs when the submodules are missing, possibly because the repo was not cloned with `--recurse-submodules`.

To resolve this problem, run `git submodule init` and `git submodule update` and then try building again.

Commit message:

Update_index.md (#3027)
This PR is to improvise the Developer Setup (with VS Code) steps. 

In order to complete the clone, the tags are required in local. in some cases, the cloning the repo does not automatically clone the tags, which results in generating an error message. 

If we miss the added step and run `task` command, it shows error:
Error Message: task: Command "/workspaces/azure-service-operator/scripts/v2/build_version.py v2" failed: exit status1. 

By performing the added step, one will be saved from fall for unnecessary setup issues.

Co-authored-by: Bevan Arps <bevan.arps@microsoft.com>

docs/hugo/content/contributing/_index.md, after:

---
title: Contributing to Azure Service Operator v2
linktitle: Contributing
weight: 50
menu:
  main:
    weight: 50
cascade:
- type: docs
- render: always
description: "How to contribute new resources to Azure Service Operator v2"
---

## Related pages

* [Adding a new code-generator resource]( {{< relref "add-a-new-code-generated-resource" >}} ).
* [Generator code overview]( {{< relref "generator-overview" >}} )

## Developer setup (with VS Code)
This is the recommended setup, especially if you are using Windows as your development platform.

This repository contains a [devcontainer](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers) configuration that can be used in conjunction with VS Code to set up an environment with all the required tools preinstalled.

If you want to use this:

0. Make sure you have installed [the prerequisites to use Docker](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers#_system-requirements), including WSL if on Windows.
1. Install VS Code and the [Remote Development](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.vscode-remote-extensionpack) extension (check installation instructions there).
2. Run the VS Code command (with `Ctrl-Shift-P`): `Remote Containers: Clone Repository in Container Volume...`

   **Note**: in Windows, it is important to clone directly into a container instead of cloning first and then loading that with the `Remote Containers` extension, as the tooling performs a lot of file I/O, and if this is performed against a volume mounted in WSL then it is unusably slow.

   To complete the clone:
    1. Select "`GitHub`".
    2. Search for "`Azure/azure-service-operator`".
    3. Choose either of the following options about where to create the volume.
    4. The window will reload and run the `Dockerfile` setup. The first time, this will take some minutes to complete as it installs all dependencies.
    5. Once the repository is cloned in your local, make sure you have access to tags as they are needed for the build. Run these commands to check `git-fetch --all --tags` `git tag -l`. If this shows empty, go to the next step.
    6. Run `git remote add azure https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator.git`, `git fetch azure`, and `git fetch azure --all --tags`. This will fetch all the required tags in your local.  
    7. Run `git fetch --unshallow` if the repository you clone is a shallow clone. If you miss this step, you may see errors like `"./scripts/build-version.py v2" failed: exit status 1` when running `task`.
    8. Run `git submodule init` and `git submodule update`

3. To validate everything is working correctly, you can open a terminal in VS Code and run `task -l`. This will show a list of all `task` commands. Running `task` by itself (or `task default`) will run quick local pre-checkin tests and validation.

## Without VS Code

### Option 1: Dockerfile

The same `Dockerfile` that the VS Code `devcontainer` extension uses can also be used outside of VS Code; it is stored in the root `.devcontainer` directory and can be used to create a development container with all the tooling preinstalled:

```console
$ docker build $(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/.devcontainer -t asodev:latest
… image will be created …

$ # After that you can start a terminal in the development container with:
$ docker run --env-file ~/work/envs.env --env HOSTROOT=$(git rev-parse --show-toplevel) -v $(git rev-parse --show-toplevel):/go/src -w /go/src -u $(id -u ${USER}):$(id -g ${USER}) --group-add $(stat -c '%g' /var/run/docker.sock) -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock --network=host  -it asodev:latest /bin/bash
```

It is not recommended to mount the source like this on Windows (WSL2) as the cross-VM file operations are very slow.

### Option 2: ./dev.sh

If you are using Linux, instead of using VS Code you can run the `dev.sh` script in the root of the repository. This will install all required tooling into the `hack/tools` directory and then start a new shell with the `PATH` updated to use it.

## Directory structure of the operator

Key folders of note include:

* [`api`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/api) contains all of our supported resources. Much (most!) of this code is generated, but handwritten code is added at various extension points for flexibility.
* [`pkg`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/pkg) contains the package `genruntime` which is provides infrastructure for our generated resources.
* [`internal`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/internal) contains packages used by our generic controller.

![Overview](images/aso-v2-structure.svg)

The size of each dot reflects the size of the file; the legend in the corner shows the meaning of colour.

## Running integration tests

Basic use: run `task controller:test-integration-envtest`.

### Record/replay

The task `controller:test-integration-envtest` runs the tests in a record/replay mode by default, so that it does not touch any live Azure resources. (This uses the [go-vcr](https://github.com/dnaeon/go-vcr) library.) If you change the controller or other code in such a way that the required requests/responses from ARM change, you will need to update the recordings.

To do this, delete the recordings for the failing tests (under `{test-dir}/recordings/{test-name}.yml`), and re-run `controller:test-integration-envtest`. If the test passes, a new recording will be saved, which you can commit to include with your change. All authentication and subscription information is removed from the recording.

To run the test and produce a new recording you will also need to have set the required authentication environment variables for an Azure Service Principal: `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, and `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`. This Service Principal will need access to the subscription to create and delete resources.
A few tests also need the `TEST_BILLING_ID` variable set to a valid Azure Billing ID when running in record mode. In replay mode this variable is never required. Note that the billing ID is redacted from all recording files so that the resulting file can be replayed by anybody, even somebody who does not know the Billing ID the test was recorded with.

If you need to create a new Azure Service Principal, run the following commands:

```console
$ az login
… follow the instructions …
$ az account set --subscription {the subscription ID you would like to use}
Creating a role assignment under the scope of "/subscriptions/{subscription ID you chose}"
…
$ az ad sp create-for-rbac --role contributor --name {the name you would like to use}
{
  "appId": "…",
  "displayName": "{name you chose}",
  "name": "{name you chose}",
  "password": "…",
  "tenant": "…"
}
```
The output contains `appId` (`AZURE_CLIENT_ID`), `password` (`AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`), and `tenant` (`AZURE_TENANT_ID`). Store these somewhere safe as the password cannot be viewed again, only reset. The Service Principal will be created as a “contributor” to your subscription which means it can create and delete resources, so **ensure you keep the secrets secure**.

### Running live tests

If you want to skip all recordings and run all tests directly against live Azure resources, you can use the `controller:test-integration-envtest-live` task. This will also require you to set the authentication environment variables, as detailed above.

### Running a single test
By default `task controller:test-integration-envtest` and its variants run all tests. This is often undesirable as you may just be working on a single feature or test. In order to run a subset of tests, use:
```bash
TEST_FILTER=test_name_regex task controller:test-integration-envtest
```

## Running the operator locally
If you would like to try something out but do not want to write an integration test, you can run the operation locally in a [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io) cluster.

Before launching `kind`, make sure that your shell has the `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, and `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` environment variables set. See [above](#recordreplay) for more details about them. 

Once you've set the environment variables above, run one of the following commands to create a `kind` cluster:

1. Service Principal authentication cluster: `task controller:kind-create-with-service-principal`.
2. AAD Pod Identity authentication enabled cluster (emulates Managed Identity): `controller:kind-create-with-podidentity`.

You can use `kubectl` to interact with the local `kind` cluster.

When you're done with the local cluster, tear it down with `task controller:kind-delete`.

## Submitting a pull request
Pull requests opened from forks of the azure-service-operator repository will initially have a `skipped` `Validate Pull Request / integration-tests` check which
will prevent merging even if all other checks pass. Once a maintainer has looked at your PR and determined it is ready they will comment `/ok-to-test sha=<sha>`
to kick off an integration test pass. If this check passes along with the other checks the PR can be merged.

## Common problems and their solutions

### Error loading schema from root

Full error:
> error loading schema from root ... open /azure-service-operator/v2/specs/azure-resource-manager-schemas/schemas/2019-04-01/deploymentTemplate.json no such file or directory

This git repo contains submodules. This error occurs when the submodules are missing, possibly because the repo was not cloned with `--recurse-submodules`.

To resolve this problem, run `git submodule init` and `git submodule update` and then try building again.
