docs/hugo/content/reference/synapse/_index.md, before:

---
title: Synapse Supported Resources
linktitle: Synapse
no_list: true
---
Supporting 2 resources: Workspace, WorkspacesBigDataPool

| Resource                                                                                                                                                       | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                              |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Workspace](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/synapse/v1api20210601/#synapse.azure.com/v1api20210601.Workspace)                         | 2021-06-01  | v1api20210601 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/synapse/v1api/v1api20210601_workspace.yaml)             |
| [WorkspacesBigDataPool](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/synapse/v1api20210601/#synapse.azure.com/v1api20210601.WorkspacesBigDataPool) | 2021-06-01  | v1api20210601 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/synapse/v1api/v1api20210601_workspacesbigdatapool.yaml) |

Commit message:

Split resources indexes into groups (#3000)
* Ignore Hugo's node_modules
* Add version comparison tests
* Split resources into groups
* Add text fragments
* Update readme
* Regenerate files
* Update golden fixture
* Move test into helper function

docs/hugo/content/reference/synapse/_index.md, after:

---
title: Synapse Supported Resources
linktitle: Synapse
no_list: true
---
### Released

These resource(s) are available for use in the current release of ASO. Different versions of a given resource reflect different versions of the Azure ARM API.


| Resource                                                                                                                                                       | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                              |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Workspace](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/synapse/v1api20210601/#synapse.azure.com/v1api20210601.Workspace)                         | 2021-06-01  | v1api20210601 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/synapse/v1api/v1api20210601_workspace.yaml)             |
| [WorkspacesBigDataPool](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/synapse/v1api20210601/#synapse.azure.com/v1api20210601.WorkspacesBigDataPool) | 2021-06-01  | v1api20210601 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/synapse/v1api/v1api20210601_workspacesbigdatapool.yaml) |
