docs/hugo/content/introduction/frequently-asked-questions.md, before:

---
title: FAQ
---
## Frequently Asked Questions

### Does ASO help with Disaster Recovery (DR) of resources in Azure?

No. If the Azure resource supports DR then you can configure it through ASO. 
If the underlying Azure Resource doesn't support DR (or the story is more complicated/manual), then you cannot currently configure it through ASO.

### How can I protect against accidentally deleting an important resource?

1. You can set [serviceoperator.azure.com/reconcile-policy: detach-on-delete](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/introduction/annotations/#serviceoperatorazurecomreconcile-policy). This will allow the resource to be deleted in k8s but not delete the underlying resource in Azure.
2. You can use a project like https://github.com/petrkotas/k8s-object-lock to protect the resources you're worried about. Note: That project is not owned/sponsored by Microsoft.
3. You can manually add a finalizer to the resource which will not be removed except manually by you when ready to delete the resource, see [this](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/05/14/using-finalizers-to-control-deletion/)

There's also a proposal for [more general upstream support](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/10179) on this topic, although there hasn't been movement on it in a while.

### What is the best practice for transferring ASO resources from one cluster to another?

There are two important tenets to remember when transferring resources between clusters:
1. Don't accidentally delete the resources in Azure during the transfer.
2. Don't have two instances of ASO fighting to reconcile the same resource to different states.

Let's say that you want to migrate all of your ASO resources from cluster A to cluster B. We recommend the following pattern:

1. Annotate the resources in cluster A with [serviceoperator.azure.com/reconcile-policy: skip](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/introduction/annotations/#serviceoperatorazurecomreconcile-policy). This prevents ASO in that cluster from updating or deleting those resources.
2. Ensure that cluster B has ASO installed.
3. `kubectl apply` the resources into cluster B. We strongly recommend an infrastructure-as-code approach where you keep your original/goal-state ASO YAMLs around.
4. Delete the resources in cluster A. Note that because of the `skip` annotation, this will not delete the backing Azure resources.

### What is the best practice for transferring ASO resources from one namespace to another? 

See [above](#what-is-the-best-practice-for-transferring-aso-resources-from-one-cluster-to-another). The process is the same for moving between namespaces.

### Can I run ASO in active-active mode?

This is where two different ASO instances manage the same resource in Azure.

This _can_ be done but is not recommended. The main risk here is the goal state between the two instances of the same resource differing, causing thrashing in Azure
as each operator instance tries to drive to its goal. If you take great care to ensure that the goal state between the two clusters cannot differ, then
active-active can be done.

We instead recommend an active-passive approach, where in 1 cluster the resources are created/managed as normal, and in the other cluster the resources are just watched.
This can be accomplished with the [serviceoperator.azure.com/reconcile-policy: skip](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/introduction/annotations/#serviceoperatorazurecomreconcile-policy) 
annotation used in the second cluster. In the case of a DR event, automation or manual action can remove the `skip` annotation in the passive cluster, turning it into active mode.

### Can ASO be used with IAC/GitOps tools?

Yes! We strongly recommend using something like [fluxcd](https://fluxcd.io/) or [argocd](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) with ASO.

If using argocd, make sure to **avoid** the `SyncPolicy Replace=true`, as that removes finalizers and annotations added by the operator whenever resources are re-applied.
ASO relies on the finalizer and annotations it adds being left alone to function properly. If they are unexpectedly removed the operator may not behave as expected.

### What's the difference between ASO and Crossplane.io?

There are a lot of similarities between ASO and Crossplane. They do similar things and have similar audiences. You can see some of this discussed [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/issues/1190).

**Today** primary differences are:
* ASO is officially maintained by Microsoft, while Crossplane Azure is community maintained.
* ASO focuses on simplicity. It doesn't offer any of the higher level abstractions that Crossplane does. ASO is not and will not ever be multi-cloud.
* The code generator we use to generate ASO resources is higher fidelity than the one that Crossplane uses. As a result, there are places where ASO resources are easier to use. 
  One example of this is references between resources such as linking a VMSS to a VNET. In Crossplane you do this by specifying the raw ARM ID. In ASO, you can specify the raw ARM ID but you can also specify a reference to the corresponding resource in Kubernetes (with its Kubernetes name) and ASO translates that into an ARM ID under the hood so that you don’t have to. This makes managing graphs of interlinked resources easier.
  
We would like to share our code-generator with Crossplane, as it’s higher fidelity than Terrajet (the codegenerator Crossplane uses to generate resources) for Azure resources. 
Right now our focus is on getting ASO to GA, after which we will hopefully have more time to invest in that.

### Can I configure how often ASO re-syncs to Azure when there have been no changes?

Yes, using the `azureSyncPeriod` argument in Helm's values.yaml, or using the `AZURE_SYNC_PERIOD`
in the `aso-controller-settings` secret.

Be careful setting this value too low as it can produce a lot of calls to Azure.

Commit message:

Update FAQ to mention throttling (#2594)
* Change sync jitter to .25. This protects better against retry storms
after pod restart

docs/hugo/content/introduction/frequently-asked-questions.md, after:

---
title: FAQ
---
## Frequently Asked Questions

### Does ASO help with Disaster Recovery (DR) of resources in Azure?

No. If the Azure resource supports DR then you can configure it through ASO. 
If the underlying Azure Resource doesn't support DR (or the story is more complicated/manual), then you cannot currently configure it through ASO.

### How can I protect against accidentally deleting an important resource?

1. You can set [serviceoperator.azure.com/reconcile-policy: detach-on-delete](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/introduction/annotations/#serviceoperatorazurecomreconcile-policy). This will allow the resource to be deleted in k8s but not delete the underlying resource in Azure.
2. You can use a project like https://github.com/petrkotas/k8s-object-lock to protect the resources you're worried about. Note: That project is not owned/sponsored by Microsoft.
3. You can manually add a finalizer to the resource which will not be removed except manually by you when ready to delete the resource, see [this](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/05/14/using-finalizers-to-control-deletion/)

There's also a proposal for [more general upstream support](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/10179) on this topic, although there hasn't been movement on it in a while.

### What is the best practice for transferring ASO resources from one cluster to another?

There are two important tenets to remember when transferring resources between clusters:
1. Don't accidentally delete the resources in Azure during the transfer.
2. Don't have two instances of ASO fighting to reconcile the same resource to different states.

Let's say that you want to migrate all of your ASO resources from cluster A to cluster B. We recommend the following pattern:

1. Annotate the resources in cluster A with [serviceoperator.azure.com/reconcile-policy: skip](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/introduction/annotations/#serviceoperatorazurecomreconcile-policy). This prevents ASO in that cluster from updating or deleting those resources.
2. Ensure that cluster B has ASO installed.
3. `kubectl apply` the resources into cluster B. We strongly recommend an infrastructure-as-code approach where you keep your original/goal-state ASO YAMLs around.
4. Delete the resources in cluster A. Note that because of the `skip` annotation, this will not delete the backing Azure resources.

### What is the best practice for transferring ASO resources from one namespace to another? 

See [above](#what-is-the-best-practice-for-transferring-aso-resources-from-one-cluster-to-another). The process is the same for moving between namespaces.

### Can I run ASO in active-active mode?

This is where two different ASO instances manage the same resource in Azure.

This _can_ be done but is not recommended. The main risk here is the goal state between the two instances of the same resource differing, causing thrashing in Azure
as each operator instance tries to drive to its goal. If you take great care to ensure that the goal state between the two clusters cannot differ, then
active-active can be done.

We instead recommend an active-passive approach, where in 1 cluster the resources are created/managed as normal, and in the other cluster the resources are just watched.
This can be accomplished with the [serviceoperator.azure.com/reconcile-policy: skip](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/introduction/annotations/#serviceoperatorazurecomreconcile-policy) 
annotation used in the second cluster. In the case of a DR event, automation or manual action can remove the `skip` annotation in the passive cluster, turning it into active mode.

### Can ASO be used with IAC/GitOps tools?

Yes! We strongly recommend using something like [fluxcd](https://fluxcd.io/) or [argocd](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) with ASO.

If using argocd, make sure to **avoid** the `SyncPolicy Replace=true`, as that removes finalizers and annotations added by the operator whenever resources are re-applied.
ASO relies on the finalizer and annotations it adds being left alone to function properly. If they are unexpectedly removed the operator may not behave as expected.

### What's the difference between ASO and Crossplane.io?

There are a lot of similarities between ASO and Crossplane. They do similar things and have similar audiences. You can see some of this discussed [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/issues/1190).

**Today** primary differences are:
* ASO is officially maintained by Microsoft, while Crossplane Azure is community maintained.
* ASO focuses on simplicity. It doesn't offer any of the higher level abstractions that Crossplane does. ASO is not and will not ever be multi-cloud.
* The code generator we use to generate ASO resources is higher fidelity than the one that Crossplane uses. As a result, there are places where ASO resources are easier to use. 
  One example of this is references between resources such as linking a VMSS to a VNET. In Crossplane you do this by specifying the raw ARM ID. In ASO, you can specify the raw ARM ID but you can also specify a reference to the corresponding resource in Kubernetes (with its Kubernetes name) and ASO translates that into an ARM ID under the hood so that you don’t have to. This makes managing graphs of interlinked resources easier.
  
We would like to share our code-generator with Crossplane, as it’s higher fidelity than Terrajet (the codegenerator Crossplane uses to generate resources) for Azure resources. 
Right now our focus is on getting ASO to GA, after which we will hopefully have more time to invest in that.

### Can I configure how often ASO re-syncs to Azure when there have been no changes?

Yes, using the `azureSyncPeriod` argument in Helm's values.yaml, or using the `AZURE_SYNC_PERIOD`
in the `aso-controller-settings` secret. This value is a string with format like: `15m`, `1h`, or `24h`.

After changing this value, you must restart the `azureserviceoperator-controller-manager` pod in order for it to take effect
if the pod is already running.

Be careful setting this value too low as it can produce a lot of calls to Azure.

### I'm seeing Subscription throttling, what can I do?

Azure subscriptions have a default limit of ~1200 PUTs an hour. Prior to ASO-beta.4, ASO's default `azureSyncPeriod` was 15m.
It was changed to 1h in ASO-beta.4.

When `azureSyncPeriod` is up for a particular resource, a new PUT is issued to the resource RP to correct any drift from 
the goal state defined in ASO. There has been discussion about changing to do diffing locally to reduce requests to Azure, 
see [#1491](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/issues/1491).

You can estimate the maximum number of resources ASO can support based on the configured `azureSyncPeriod` and the rough cap of
1200 / hr.

| azureSyncPeriod | Maximum possible resources |
|-----------------|----------------------------|
| 15m             | 300                        |
| 1h              | 1200                       |
| 24h             | ~28000                     |
