docs/hugo/content/reference/machinelearningservices/_index.md, before:

---
title: MachineLearningServices Supported Resources
linktitle: MachineLearningServices
no_list: true
---
Supporting 3 resources: Workspace, WorkspacesCompute, WorkspacesConnection

| Resource                                                                                                                                                                                       | ARM Version | CRD Version    | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                                               |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|----------------|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Workspace](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/machinelearningservices/v1api20210701/#machinelearningservices.azure.com/v1api20210701.Workspace)                         | 2021-07-01  | v1api20210701  | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/machinelearningservices/v1api/v1api20210701_workspace.yaml)              |
| [Workspace](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/machinelearningservices/v1beta20210701/#machinelearningservices.azure.com/v1beta20210701.Workspace)                       | 2021-07-01  | v1beta20210701 | v2.0.0-beta.2  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/machinelearningservices/v1beta/v1beta20210701_workspace.yaml)            |
| [WorkspacesCompute](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/machinelearningservices/v1api20210701/#machinelearningservices.azure.com/v1api20210701.WorkspacesCompute)         | 2021-07-01  | v1api20210701  | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/machinelearningservices/v1api/v1api20210701_workspacescompute.yaml)      |
| [WorkspacesCompute](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/machinelearningservices/v1beta20210701/#machinelearningservices.azure.com/v1beta20210701.WorkspacesCompute)       | 2021-07-01  | v1beta20210701 | v2.0.0-beta.2  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/machinelearningservices/v1beta/v1beta20210701_workspacescompute.yaml)    |
| [WorkspacesConnection](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/machinelearningservices/v1api20210701/#machinelearningservices.azure.com/v1api20210701.WorkspacesConnection)   | 2021-07-01  | v1api20210701  | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/machinelearningservices/v1api/v1api20210701_workspacesconnection.yaml)   |
| [WorkspacesConnection](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/machinelearningservices/v1beta20210701/#machinelearningservices.azure.com/v1beta20210701.WorkspacesConnection) | 2021-07-01  | v1beta20210701 | v2.0.0-beta.2  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/machinelearningservices/v1beta/v1beta20210701_workspacesconnection.yaml) |

Commit message:

Split resources indexes into groups (#3000)
* Ignore Hugo's node_modules
* Add version comparison tests
* Split resources into groups
* Add text fragments
* Update readme
* Regenerate files
* Update golden fixture
* Move test into helper function

docs/hugo/content/reference/machinelearningservices/_index.md, after:

---
title: MachineLearningServices Supported Resources
linktitle: MachineLearningServices
no_list: true
---
### Released

These resource(s) are available for use in the current release of ASO. Different versions of a given resource reflect different versions of the Azure ARM API.


| Resource                                                                                                                                                                                     | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                                             |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Workspace](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/machinelearningservices/v1api20210701/#machinelearningservices.azure.com/v1api20210701.Workspace)                       | 2021-07-01  | v1api20210701 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/machinelearningservices/v1api/v1api20210701_workspace.yaml)            |
| [WorkspacesCompute](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/machinelearningservices/v1api20210701/#machinelearningservices.azure.com/v1api20210701.WorkspacesCompute)       | 2021-07-01  | v1api20210701 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/machinelearningservices/v1api/v1api20210701_workspacescompute.yaml)    |
| [WorkspacesConnection](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/machinelearningservices/v1api20210701/#machinelearningservices.azure.com/v1api20210701.WorkspacesConnection) | 2021-07-01  | v1api20210701 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/machinelearningservices/v1api/v1api20210701_workspacesconnection.yaml) |

### Deprecated

These resource versions are deprecated and will be removed in an upcoming ASO release. Migration to newer versions is advised. See [Breaking Changes](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/guide/breaking-changes/) for more information.

| Resource                                                                                                                                                                                       | ARM Version | CRD Version    | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                                               |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|----------------|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Workspace](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/machinelearningservices/v1beta20210701/#machinelearningservices.azure.com/v1beta20210701.Workspace)                       | 2021-07-01  | v1beta20210701 | v2.0.0-beta.2  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/machinelearningservices/v1beta/v1beta20210701_workspace.yaml)            |
| [WorkspacesCompute](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/machinelearningservices/v1beta20210701/#machinelearningservices.azure.com/v1beta20210701.WorkspacesCompute)       | 2021-07-01  | v1beta20210701 | v2.0.0-beta.2  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/machinelearningservices/v1beta/v1beta20210701_workspacescompute.yaml)    |
| [WorkspacesConnection](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/machinelearningservices/v1beta20210701/#machinelearningservices.azure.com/v1beta20210701.WorkspacesConnection) | 2021-07-01  | v1beta20210701 | v2.0.0-beta.2  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/machinelearningservices/v1beta/v1beta20210701_workspacesconnection.yaml) |
