# Azure Operator (for Kubernetes)

> This project is experimental. Expect the API to change. It is not recommended for production environments.

## Introduction

Kubernetes offers the facility of extending it's API through the concept of 'Operators' ([Introducing Operators: Putting Operational Knowledge into Software](https://coreos.com/blog/introducing-operators.html)). This repository contains the resources and code to provision a Resource group and Azure Event Hub using Kubernetes operator.

The Azure Operator comprises of:
- The golang application is a Kubernetes controller that watches Customer Resource Definitions (CRDs) that define a Resource Group and Event Hub 

The project was built using

1. [Kubebuilder](https://book.kubebuilder.io/)

### Prerequisites And Assumptions

1. You have GoLang installed.
2. You have the kubectl command line (kubectl CLI) installed.
3. You have acess to a Kubernetes cluster. It can be a local hosted Cluster like [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/), [Kind](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind) or, Docker for desktop installed localy with RBAC enabled. if you opt for Azure Kubernetes Service ([AKS](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-au/services/kubernetes-service/)), you can use: `az aks get-credentials --resource-group $RG_NAME --name $Cluster_NAME`
Kubectl: Client version 1.14 Server Version 1.12
4. [kustomize](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize) is also needed

Basic commands to check your cluster

```shell
    kubectl config get-contexts
    kubectl cluster-info
    kubectl version
    kubectl get pods -n kube-system
```

5. [Cert Manager](https://docs.cert-manager.io/en/latest/getting-started/install/kubernetes.html)
```shell
kubectl get secret webhook-server-cert -n azureoperator-system -o yaml >certs.txt
```
you can use `https://inbrowser.tools/` and exctarct ca.crt,tls.crt and tls.key

### Run Souce Code

1. Clone the repo

2. Install the azure_v1_eventhub CRD in the configured Kubernetes cluster folder ~/.kube/config, 
run `kubectl apply -f config/crd/bases` or `make install`

3. Update the values in `azure_v1_eventhub.yaml` to reflect the resource group and event hub you want to provision

4. you need kind to test webhooks

```shell
    GO111MODULE="on" go get sigs.k8s.io/kind@v0.4.0 && kind create cluster
    kind create cluster
    export KUBECONFIG="$(kind get kubeconfig-path --name="kind")"
    kubectl cluster-info
    IMG="docker.io/yourimage:tag" make docker-build
    kind load docker-image docker.io/yourimage:tag --loglevel "trace"
    make deploy
```

4. Set the environment variables AZURE_TENANT_ID, AZURE_CLIENT_ID, AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET, AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID, REQUEUE_AFTER
If you are running it on Windows the environment variables should not have quotes. It should be set in this way:
SET  AZURE_TENANT_ID=11xxxx-xxx-xxx-xxx-xxxxx
and the VSCode should be run from the same session/command window

5. Set the azureoperatorsettings secrete

```shell
Create the azureoperator-system namespace
kubectl --namespace azureoperator-system \
    create secret generic azureoperatorsettings \
    --from-literal=AZURE_CLIENT_ID="xxxx" \
    --from-literal=AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET="xxxxx" \
    --from-literal=AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID="xxxx" \
    --from-literal=AZURE_TENANT_ID="xxxxx"
```
### How to extend the operator and build your own images

#### Updating the Azure operator:

This Repo is generated by [Kubebuilder](https://book.kubebuilder.io/).

To Extend the operator `Telstra.Dx.AzureOperator`:

1. Run `go mod download` to download dependencies. It doesn't show any progress bar and takes a while to download all of dependencies.
2. Update `api\v1\eventhub_types.go`.
3. Regenerate CRD `make manifests`.
4. Install updated CRD `make install`
5. Generate code `make generate`
6. Update operator `controller\eventhub_controller.go`
7. Update tests and run `make test`
8. Build `make build`
9. Deploy `make deploy`

# Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.
