docs/hugo/content/reference/eventgrid/_index.md, before:

---
title: EventGrid Supported Resources
linktitle: EventGrid
no_list: true
---
Supporting 4 resources: Domain, DomainsTopic, EventSubscription, Topic

| Resource                                                                                                                                                     | ARM Version | CRD Version    | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                              |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|----------------|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Domain](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1api20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1api20200601.Domain)                         | 2020-06-01  | v1api20200601  | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1api/v1api20200601_domain.yaml)              |
| [Domain](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1beta20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1beta20200601.Domain)                       | 2020-06-01  | v1beta20200601 | v2.0.0-beta.0  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1beta/v1beta20200601_domain.yaml)            |
| [DomainsTopic](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1api20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1api20200601.DomainsTopic)             | 2020-06-01  | v1api20200601  | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1api/v1api20200601_domainstopic.yaml)        |
| [DomainsTopic](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1beta20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1beta20200601.DomainsTopic)           | 2020-06-01  | v1beta20200601 | v2.0.0-beta.0  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1beta/v1beta20200601_domainstopic.yaml)      |
| [EventSubscription](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1api20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1api20200601.EventSubscription)   | 2020-06-01  | v1api20200601  | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1api/v1api20200601_eventsubscription.yaml)   |
| [EventSubscription](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1beta20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1beta20200601.EventSubscription) | 2020-06-01  | v1beta20200601 | v2.0.0-beta.0  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1beta/v1beta20200601_eventsubscription.yaml) |
| [Topic](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1api20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1api20200601.Topic)                           | 2020-06-01  | v1api20200601  | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1api/v1api20200601_topic.yaml)               |
| [Topic](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1beta20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1beta20200601.Topic)                         | 2020-06-01  | v1beta20200601 | v2.0.0-beta.0  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1beta/v1beta20200601_topic.yaml)             |

Commit message:

Split resources indexes into groups (#3000)
* Ignore Hugo's node_modules
* Add version comparison tests
* Split resources into groups
* Add text fragments
* Update readme
* Regenerate files
* Update golden fixture
* Move test into helper function

docs/hugo/content/reference/eventgrid/_index.md, after:

---
title: EventGrid Supported Resources
linktitle: EventGrid
no_list: true
---
### Released

These resource(s) are available for use in the current release of ASO. Different versions of a given resource reflect different versions of the Azure ARM API.


| Resource                                                                                                                                                   | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                            |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Domain](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1api20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1api20200601.Domain)                       | 2020-06-01  | v1api20200601 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1api/v1api20200601_domain.yaml)            |
| [DomainsTopic](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1api20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1api20200601.DomainsTopic)           | 2020-06-01  | v1api20200601 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1api/v1api20200601_domainstopic.yaml)      |
| [EventSubscription](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1api20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1api20200601.EventSubscription) | 2020-06-01  | v1api20200601 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1api/v1api20200601_eventsubscription.yaml) |
| [Topic](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1api20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1api20200601.Topic)                         | 2020-06-01  | v1api20200601 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1api/v1api20200601_topic.yaml)             |

### Deprecated

These resource versions are deprecated and will be removed in an upcoming ASO release. Migration to newer versions is advised. See [Breaking Changes](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/guide/breaking-changes/) for more information.

| Resource                                                                                                                                                     | ARM Version | CRD Version    | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                              |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|----------------|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Domain](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1beta20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1beta20200601.Domain)                       | 2020-06-01  | v1beta20200601 | v2.0.0-beta.0  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1beta/v1beta20200601_domain.yaml)            |
| [DomainsTopic](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1beta20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1beta20200601.DomainsTopic)           | 2020-06-01  | v1beta20200601 | v2.0.0-beta.0  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1beta/v1beta20200601_domainstopic.yaml)      |
| [EventSubscription](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1beta20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1beta20200601.EventSubscription) | 2020-06-01  | v1beta20200601 | v2.0.0-beta.0  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1beta/v1beta20200601_eventsubscription.yaml) |
| [Topic](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/eventgrid/v1beta20200601/#eventgrid.azure.com/v1beta20200601.Topic)                         | 2020-06-01  | v1beta20200601 | v2.0.0-beta.0  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/eventgrid/v1beta/v1beta20200601_topic.yaml)             |
