docs/hugo/content/reference/search/_index.md, before:

---
title: Search Supported Resources
linktitle: Search
no_list: true
---
### Next Release

Development of these new resources is complete and they will be available in the next release of ASO.


| Resource                                                                                                                                     | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                     |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [SearchService](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/search/v1api20220901/#search.azure.com/v1api20220901.SearchService) | 2022-09-01  | v1api20220901 | v2.1.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/search/v1api/v1api20220901_searchservice.yaml) |

Commit message:

Fix generated docs after release
* Docs now indicate the new resources are released.
* Updated generator to correctly exit with a nonzero exit code if an
  error was returned.
* Resolved an issue with the generator where not consuming the
  deprecated or prerelease fragments for documentation generation was
  fatal.

docs/hugo/content/reference/search/_index.md, after:

---
title: Search Supported Resources
linktitle: Search
no_list: true
---
### Released

These resource(s) are available for use in the current release of ASO. Different versions of a given resource reflect different versions of the Azure ARM API.


| Resource                                                                                                                                     | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                     |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [SearchService](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/search/v1api20220901/#search.azure.com/v1api20220901.SearchService) | 2022-09-01  | v1api20220901 | v2.1.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/search/v1api/v1api20220901_searchservice.yaml) |
