docs/hugo/content/reference/dbformariadb/_index.md, before:

---
title: DBforMariaDB Supported Resources
linktitle: DBforMariaDB
no_list: true
---
Supporting 3 resources: Configuration, Database, Server

| Resource                                                                                                                                                   | ARM Version | CRD Version    | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                             |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|----------------|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Configuration](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dbformariadb/v1api20180601/#dbformariadb.azure.com/v1api20180601.Configuration)   | 2018-06-01  | v1api20180601  | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dbformariadb/v1api/v1api20180601_configuration.yaml)   |
| [Configuration](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dbformariadb/v1beta20180601/#dbformariadb.azure.com/v1beta20180601.Configuration) | 2018-06-01  | v1beta20180601 | v2.0.0-beta.1  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dbformariadb/v1beta/v1beta20180601_configuration.yaml) |
| [Database](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dbformariadb/v1api20180601/#dbformariadb.azure.com/v1api20180601.Database)             | 2018-06-01  | v1api20180601  | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dbformariadb/v1api/v1api20180601_database.yaml)        |
| [Database](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dbformariadb/v1beta20180601/#dbformariadb.azure.com/v1beta20180601.Database)           | 2018-06-01  | v1beta20180601 | v2.0.0-beta.1  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dbformariadb/v1beta/v1beta20180601_database.yaml)      |
| [Server](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dbformariadb/v1api20180601/#dbformariadb.azure.com/v1api20180601.Server)                 | 2018-06-01  | v1api20180601  | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dbformariadb/v1api/v1api20180601_server.yaml)          |
| [Server](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dbformariadb/v1beta20180601/#dbformariadb.azure.com/v1beta20180601.Server)               | 2018-06-01  | v1beta20180601 | v2.0.0-beta.1  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dbformariadb/v1beta/v1beta20180601_server.yaml)        |

Commit message:

Split resources indexes into groups (#3000)
* Ignore Hugo's node_modules
* Add version comparison tests
* Split resources into groups
* Add text fragments
* Update readme
* Regenerate files
* Update golden fixture
* Move test into helper function

docs/hugo/content/reference/dbformariadb/_index.md, after:

---
title: DBforMariaDB Supported Resources
linktitle: DBforMariaDB
no_list: true
---
### Released

These resource(s) are available for use in the current release of ASO. Different versions of a given resource reflect different versions of the Azure ARM API.


| Resource                                                                                                                                                 | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                           |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Configuration](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dbformariadb/v1api20180601/#dbformariadb.azure.com/v1api20180601.Configuration) | 2018-06-01  | v1api20180601 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dbformariadb/v1api/v1api20180601_configuration.yaml) |
| [Database](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dbformariadb/v1api20180601/#dbformariadb.azure.com/v1api20180601.Database)           | 2018-06-01  | v1api20180601 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dbformariadb/v1api/v1api20180601_database.yaml)      |
| [Server](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dbformariadb/v1api20180601/#dbformariadb.azure.com/v1api20180601.Server)               | 2018-06-01  | v1api20180601 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dbformariadb/v1api/v1api20180601_server.yaml)        |

### Deprecated

These resource versions are deprecated and will be removed in an upcoming ASO release. Migration to newer versions is advised. See [Breaking Changes](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/guide/breaking-changes/) for more information.

| Resource                                                                                                                                                   | ARM Version | CRD Version    | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                             |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|----------------|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Configuration](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dbformariadb/v1beta20180601/#dbformariadb.azure.com/v1beta20180601.Configuration) | 2018-06-01  | v1beta20180601 | v2.0.0-beta.1  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dbformariadb/v1beta/v1beta20180601_configuration.yaml) |
| [Database](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dbformariadb/v1beta20180601/#dbformariadb.azure.com/v1beta20180601.Database)           | 2018-06-01  | v1beta20180601 | v2.0.0-beta.1  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dbformariadb/v1beta/v1beta20180601_database.yaml)      |
| [Server](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/dbformariadb/v1beta20180601/#dbformariadb.azure.com/v1beta20180601.Server)               | 2018-06-01  | v1beta20180601 | v2.0.0-beta.1  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/dbformariadb/v1beta/v1beta20180601_server.yaml)        |
