docs/hugo/content/reference/sql/_index.md, before:

---
title: Sql Supported Resources
linktitle: Sql
no_list: true
---
Supporting 22 resources: Server, ServersAdministrator, ServersAdvancedThreatProtectionSetting, ServersAuditingSetting, ServersAzureADOnlyAuthentication, ServersConnectionPolicy, ServersDatabase, ServersDatabasesAdvancedThreatProtectionSetting, ServersDatabasesAuditingSetting, ServersDatabasesBackupLongTermRetentionPolicy, ServersDatabasesBackupShortTermRetentionPolicy, ServersDatabasesSecurityAlertPolicy, ServersDatabasesTransparentDataEncryption, ServersDatabasesVulnerabilityAssessment, ServersElasticPool, ServersFailoverGroup, ServersFirewallRule, ServersIPV6FirewallRule, ServersOutboundFirewallRule, ServersSecurityAlertPolicy, ServersVirtualNetworkRule, ServersVulnerabilityAssessment

| Resource                                                                                                                                                                                                   | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                                                    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Server](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.Server)                                                                                   | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_server.yaml)                                          |
| [ServersAdministrator](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersAdministrator)                                                       | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversadministrator.yaml)                            |
| [ServersAdvancedThreatProtectionSetting](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersAdvancedThreatProtectionSetting)                   | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversadvancedthreatprotectionsetting.yaml)          |
| [ServersAuditingSetting](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersAuditingSetting)                                                   | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversauditingsetting.yaml)                          |
| [ServersAzureADOnlyAuthentication](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersAzureADOnlyAuthentication)                               | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversazureadonlyauthentication.yaml)                |
| [ServersConnectionPolicy](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersConnectionPolicy)                                                 | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversconnectionpolicy.yaml)                         |
| [ServersDatabase](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabase)                                                                 | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabase.yaml)                                 |
| [ServersDatabasesAdvancedThreatProtectionSetting](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesAdvancedThreatProtectionSetting) | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasesadvancedthreatprotectionsetting.yaml) |
| [ServersDatabasesAuditingSetting](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesAuditingSetting)                                 | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasesauditingsetting.yaml)                 |
| [ServersDatabasesBackupLongTermRetentionPolicy](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesBackupLongTermRetentionPolicy)     | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasesbackuplongtermretentionpolicy.yaml)   |
| [ServersDatabasesBackupShortTermRetentionPolicy](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesBackupShortTermRetentionPolicy)   | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasesbackupshorttermretentionpolicy.yaml)  |
| [ServersDatabasesSecurityAlertPolicy](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesSecurityAlertPolicy)                         | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasessecurityalertpolicy.yaml)             |
| [ServersDatabasesTransparentDataEncryption](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesTransparentDataEncryption)             | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasestransparentdataencryption.yaml)       |
| [ServersDatabasesVulnerabilityAssessment](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesVulnerabilityAssessment)                 | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasesvulnerabilityassessment.yaml)         |
| [ServersElasticPool](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersElasticPool)                                                           | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serverselasticpool.yaml)                              |
| [ServersFailoverGroup](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersFailoverGroup)                                                       | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversfailovergroup.yaml)                            |
| [ServersFirewallRule](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersFirewallRule)                                                         | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversfirewallrule.yaml)                             |
| [ServersIPV6FirewallRule](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersIPV6FirewallRule)                                                 | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversipv6firewallrule.yaml)                         |
| [ServersOutboundFirewallRule](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersOutboundFirewallRule)                                         | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversoutboundfirewallrule.yaml)                     |
| [ServersSecurityAlertPolicy](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersSecurityAlertPolicy)                                           | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serverssecurityalertpolicy.yaml)                      |
| [ServersVirtualNetworkRule](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersVirtualNetworkRule)                                             | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversvirtualnetworkrule.yaml)                       |
| [ServersVulnerabilityAssessment](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersVulnerabilityAssessment)                                   | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversvulnerabilityassessment.yaml)                  |

Commit message:

Split resources indexes into groups (#3000)
* Ignore Hugo's node_modules
* Add version comparison tests
* Split resources into groups
* Add text fragments
* Update readme
* Regenerate files
* Update golden fixture
* Move test into helper function

docs/hugo/content/reference/sql/_index.md, after:

---
title: Sql Supported Resources
linktitle: Sql
no_list: true
---
### Released

These resource(s) are available for use in the current release of ASO. Different versions of a given resource reflect different versions of the Azure ARM API.


| Resource                                                                                                                                                                                                   | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                                                    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Server](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.Server)                                                                                   | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_server.yaml)                                          |
| [ServersAdministrator](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersAdministrator)                                                       | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversadministrator.yaml)                            |
| [ServersAdvancedThreatProtectionSetting](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersAdvancedThreatProtectionSetting)                   | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversadvancedthreatprotectionsetting.yaml)          |
| [ServersAuditingSetting](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersAuditingSetting)                                                   | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversauditingsetting.yaml)                          |
| [ServersAzureADOnlyAuthentication](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersAzureADOnlyAuthentication)                               | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversazureadonlyauthentication.yaml)                |
| [ServersConnectionPolicy](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersConnectionPolicy)                                                 | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversconnectionpolicy.yaml)                         |
| [ServersDatabase](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabase)                                                                 | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabase.yaml)                                 |
| [ServersDatabasesAdvancedThreatProtectionSetting](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesAdvancedThreatProtectionSetting) | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasesadvancedthreatprotectionsetting.yaml) |
| [ServersDatabasesAuditingSetting](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesAuditingSetting)                                 | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasesauditingsetting.yaml)                 |
| [ServersDatabasesBackupLongTermRetentionPolicy](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesBackupLongTermRetentionPolicy)     | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasesbackuplongtermretentionpolicy.yaml)   |
| [ServersDatabasesBackupShortTermRetentionPolicy](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesBackupShortTermRetentionPolicy)   | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasesbackupshorttermretentionpolicy.yaml)  |
| [ServersDatabasesSecurityAlertPolicy](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesSecurityAlertPolicy)                         | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasessecurityalertpolicy.yaml)             |
| [ServersDatabasesTransparentDataEncryption](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesTransparentDataEncryption)             | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasestransparentdataencryption.yaml)       |
| [ServersDatabasesVulnerabilityAssessment](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersDatabasesVulnerabilityAssessment)                 | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversdatabasesvulnerabilityassessment.yaml)         |
| [ServersElasticPool](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersElasticPool)                                                           | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serverselasticpool.yaml)                              |
| [ServersFailoverGroup](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersFailoverGroup)                                                       | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversfailovergroup.yaml)                            |
| [ServersFirewallRule](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersFirewallRule)                                                         | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversfirewallrule.yaml)                             |
| [ServersIPV6FirewallRule](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersIPV6FirewallRule)                                                 | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversipv6firewallrule.yaml)                         |
| [ServersOutboundFirewallRule](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersOutboundFirewallRule)                                         | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversoutboundfirewallrule.yaml)                     |
| [ServersSecurityAlertPolicy](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersSecurityAlertPolicy)                                           | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serverssecurityalertpolicy.yaml)                      |
| [ServersVirtualNetworkRule](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersVirtualNetworkRule)                                             | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversvirtualnetworkrule.yaml)                       |
| [ServersVulnerabilityAssessment](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/sql/v1api20211101/#sql.azure.com/v1api20211101.ServersVulnerabilityAssessment)                                   | 2021-11-01  | v1api20211101 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/sql/v1api/v1api20211101_serversvulnerabilityassessment.yaml)                  |
