docs/hugo/content/reference/datafactory/_index.md, before:

---
title: DataFactory Supported Resources
linktitle: DataFactory
no_list: true
---
Supporting 1 resource: Factory

| Resource                                                                                                                                   | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                    |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Factory](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/datafactory/v1api20180601/#datafactory.azure.com/v1api20180601.Factory) | 2018-06-01  | v1api20180601 | v2.1.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/datafactory/v1api/v1api20180601_factory.yaml) |

Commit message:

Split resources indexes into groups (#3000)
* Ignore Hugo's node_modules
* Add version comparison tests
* Split resources into groups
* Add text fragments
* Update readme
* Regenerate files
* Update golden fixture
* Move test into helper function

docs/hugo/content/reference/datafactory/_index.md, after:

---
title: DataFactory Supported Resources
linktitle: DataFactory
no_list: true
---
### Next Release

Development of these new resources is complete and they will be available in the next release of ASO.


| Resource                                                                                                                                   | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                    |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Factory](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/datafactory/v1api20180601/#datafactory.azure.com/v1api20180601.Factory) | 2018-06-01  | v1api20180601 | v2.1.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/datafactory/v1api/v1api20180601_factory.yaml) |
