docs/hugo/content/reference/subscription/_index.md, before:

---
title: Subscription Supported Resources
linktitle: Subscription
no_list: true
---
Supporting 1 resource: Alias

| Resource                                                                                                                                   | ARM Version | CRD Version    | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                     |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|----------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Alias](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/subscription/v1api20211001/#subscription.azure.com/v1api20211001.Alias)   | 2021-10-01  | v1api20211001  | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/subscription/v1api/v1api20211001_alias.yaml)   |
| [Alias](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/subscription/v1beta20211001/#subscription.azure.com/v1beta20211001.Alias) | 2021-10-01  | v1beta20211001 | v2.0.0-beta.2  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/subscription/v1beta/v1beta20211001_alias.yaml) |

Commit message:

Split resources indexes into groups (#3000)
* Ignore Hugo's node_modules
* Add version comparison tests
* Split resources into groups
* Add text fragments
* Update readme
* Regenerate files
* Update golden fixture
* Move test into helper function

docs/hugo/content/reference/subscription/_index.md, after:

---
title: Subscription Supported Resources
linktitle: Subscription
no_list: true
---
### Released

These resource(s) are available for use in the current release of ASO. Different versions of a given resource reflect different versions of the Azure ARM API.


| Resource                                                                                                                                 | ARM Version | CRD Version   | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                   |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|---------------|----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Alias](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/subscription/v1api20211001/#subscription.azure.com/v1api20211001.Alias) | 2021-10-01  | v1api20211001 | v2.0.0         | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/subscription/v1api/v1api20211001_alias.yaml) |

### Deprecated

These resource versions are deprecated and will be removed in an upcoming ASO release. Migration to newer versions is advised. See [Breaking Changes](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/guide/breaking-changes/) for more information.

| Resource                                                                                                                                   | ARM Version | CRD Version    | Supported From | Sample                                                                                                                     |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|----------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Alias](https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/reference/subscription/v1beta20211001/#subscription.azure.com/v1beta20211001.Alias) | 2021-10-01  | v1beta20211001 | v2.0.0-beta.2  | [View](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/tree/main/v2/samples/subscription/v1beta/v1beta20211001_alias.yaml) |
