---
title: "User’s Guide"
linktitle: "Guide"
weight: 10
menu:
  main:
    weight: 10
cascade:
- type: docs
description: "How to use Azure Service Operator v2 to manage your Azure resources from within your Kubernetes Cluster"
---

{{% cardpane %}}
{{% card header="**Installation**"%}}

### Helm

[Helm]( {{< relref "/#installation" >}}) is the preferred way to install and manage Azure Service Operator.  

### YAML

You can install directly [using YAML]( {{< relref "installing-from-yaml" >}}) if you choose.  

### Uninstalling

[Uninstalling]( {{< relref "uninstalling" >}}) ASO is easy.  

### Diagnosing problems

[Common issues]( {{< relref "diagnosing-problems" >}} ).

{{% /card %}}
{{% card header="**Configuration**"%}}

### Configuring ASO

[Configuration of ASO]( {{< relref "aso-controller-settings-options" >}}) is primarily via a secret in the `azureserviceoperator-system`
namespace.  

### Annotations understood by the operator

A number of [annotations]( {{< relref "annotations" >}}) can be used to control ASO behavior.  

### Handling secrets

Use Kubernetes [secrets]( {{< relref "secrets" >}}) to manage secrets for Azure resources, and to publish secrets generated by Azure.

### Sharing data through ConfigMaps

Configure your Azure resources using Kubernetes [configmaps]( {{< relref "configmaps" >}}), and publish data from Azure as configmaps.

{{% /card %}}
{{% /cardpane %}}

{{% cardpane %}}
{{% card header="**Resources**"%}}

### KeyVaults

For resiliency ASO introduces new options for [creating KeyVaults]( {{< relref "keyvaults" >}}).

{{% /card %}}
{{% card header="**Upgrading**"%}}

### Breaking Changes

Before upgrading, check for any [breaking changes]( {{< relref "breaking-changes" >}}) in the release notes.

### Upgrading

[Upgrading]( {{< relref "upgrading" >}}) to a new release of ASO.

{{% /card %}}
{{% /cardpane %}}

{{% cardpane %}}
{{% card header="**Reference**"%}}

### Frequently Asked Questions

Read our [FAQ]( {{< relref "frequently-asked-questions" >}}) for answers to common questions.

### Authentication

ASO supports multiple approaches to [authentication]( {{< relref "authentication" >}}).

### CRD Management

How does ASO manage a [large number of CRDs]( {{< relref "crd-management" >}})?

### Conditions

[Conditions]( {{< relref "conditions" >}}) are used to report the status of a resource.

### Metrics

ASO exposes [metrics]( {{< relref "metrics" >}}) for Prometheus.

### Best practices

See [best practices]( {{< relref "best-practices" >}}) for ASO best practices.

{{% /card %}}
{{% card header="**Get In Touch**"%}}

If you've got a question, a problem, a request, or just want to chat, here are two ways to contact us:

* Log an issue on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/azure/azure-service-operator).
* Join us over on the [Kubernetes Slack](https://kubernetes.slack.com) in the [#azure-service-operator](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C046DEVLAQM) channel. (Don't have an account? [Sign up here](https://slack.k8s.io/).)

{{% /card %}}
{{% /cardpane %}}
