docs/hugo/content/guide/installing-from-yaml.md, before:

---
title: "Installation: From YAML"
weight: -4
---
### Prerequisites
1. You have installed Cert Manager as per the [installation instructions](../../#installation) up to the "install from Helm" step.
2. You have the `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` and `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` environment variables set from the
   [installation instructions](../../#installation).

### Installation

1. Install [the latest **v2+** release](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/releases) of Azure Service Operator.
   ```bash
   kubectl apply --server-side=true -f https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/releases/download/v2.0.0/azureserviceoperator_v2.0.0.yaml
   ```
2. Create the Azure Service Operator v2 secret. This secret contains the identity that Azure Service Operator will run as. 
   Make sure that you have the 4 environment variables from the [Helm installation instructions](../../#installation) set.
   To learn more about other authentication options, see the [authentication documentation](../authentication/):
   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: aso-controller-settings
     namespace: azureserviceoperator-system
   stringData:
     AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID: "$AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID"
     AZURE_TENANT_ID: "$AZURE_TENANT_ID"
     AZURE_CLIENT_ID: "$AZURE_CLIENT_ID"
     AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET: "$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET"
   EOF
   ```

Commit message:

Add troubleshooting for installation from YAML (#3096)

docs/hugo/content/guide/installing-from-yaml.md, after:

---
title: "Installation: From YAML"
weight: -4
---
## Prerequisites
1. You have installed Cert Manager as per the [installation instructions](../../#installation) up to the "install from Helm" step.
2. You have the `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` and `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` environment variables set from the
   [installation instructions](../../#installation).

## Installation

1. Install [the latest **v2+** release](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/releases) of Azure Service Operator.
   ```bash
   kubectl apply --server-side=true -f https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/releases/download/v2.0.0/azureserviceoperator_v2.0.0.yaml
   ```
2. Create the Azure Service Operator v2 secret. This secret contains the identity that Azure Service Operator will run as. 
   Make sure that you have the 4 environment variables from the [Helm installation instructions](../../#installation) set.
   To learn more about other authentication options, see the [authentication documentation](../authentication/):
   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: aso-controller-settings
     namespace: azureserviceoperator-system
   stringData:
     AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID: "$AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID"
     AZURE_TENANT_ID: "$AZURE_TENANT_ID"
     AZURE_CLIENT_ID: "$AZURE_CLIENT_ID"
     AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET: "$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET"
   EOF
   ```

## Troubleshooting

### Metadata too long

If you omit the `--server-side=true` flag from the `kubectl apply` command, you will see an error like the following:

``` 
CustomResourceDefinition.apiextensions.k8s.io "storageaccounts.storage.azure.com" is invalid:
metadata.annotations: Too long: must have at most 262144 bytes
```

Why does this happen? ASO CRDs are a complete representation of the Azure Resource surface area, including documentation. This is tremendously useful - but also means they are quite large.
